
If you want to subscribe to LibCMT's RSS feed for new file releases,
you can find at:

http://sourceforge.net/export/rss2_projfiles.php?group_id=150843


2006-03-11 LibCMT 0.1.0

Added new C# binding. Now LibCMT could be used within the .Net 
framework. Added a solution to the producers-consumers problem to
the C examples.

2006-01-13 LibCMT 0.0.5

Major problem fixed: lack of isolation property. On a transactional
model, every separate transaction must be isolated from each other,
that is, it mustn't see partial results of another transactions.
Previous releases doesn't accomplish this requirement in the presence
of an 'orElse' composition where the first transaction blocks.

2005-12-3 LibCMT 0.0.4

g_transaction_do() signature changed, now it has a gpointer argument
to pass data in/out from the transaction function on execution. Added
g_transaction_abort() function. Also added a solution to the dinning
philosophers problem to the test suite. Thanks to the spec file
provided by Dries Verachtert now there are binary packages available
for Fedora Core 4.

2005-11-18 LibCMT 0.0.3

Fixed many errors, added options to configure, changed signature of
g_transaction_new(), removed g_transaction_set_func(). Added macros for
manipulation of transaction's private field. Also g_transaction_do()
and g_transaction_retry() are more efficient now and GTransaction data
type occupies far less memory.

2005-11-9 LibCMT 0.0.2

Now blocking transactions goes to sleep only on tvar's that were already
readed from the beginning of the transaction. It also includes a new
configure option useful for developers. In fact, this release was done
because the previous Sourceforge.net package available for download
(0.0.1) became corrupted.

2005-11-3 LibCMT 0.0.1

First alpha release.

